## Quarter 3 - CS 12

- 1/31/2025 (Friday)
	 -  Notes on Binary Search
	 -  Complete Unit 10 Review in AP Classroom
	 -  Write Binary Search code [using this file](../AP_shared/recursion/BinarySearch.java). See this [sample output](../AP_shared/recursion/BinarySearch-output.txt)
	 -  Run your code with the sample output from above, take a full screenshot of the result and upload to server as BinarySearch.png.
- 2/4 (Tuesday)
  - Selection sort and Insertion sort
  - Practice tracing recursive code
  - Quiz next block. See AP review and [these questions](https://www.varsitytutors.com/ap_computer_science_a-help/recursion) for practice. Mostly MC for the quiz
- 2/6 (Thursday)
	- Recursion quiz in class
- 2/10 (Monday)
	- Quicksort, MergeSort
	- Write merge sort in class!
	- Coding assignment: Graph runtime of various sorts using XChart. Specifics will be posted later today!
	- FRQ practice [2018 FRQs](../AP_shared/FRQs/ap18-frq-computer-science-a.pdf)
	- [Solution](../AP_shared/FRQs/ap18-sg-comp-sci-a.pdf)
- 2/14 (Friday)
  - Engineering Day [sign up](https://forms.gle/2WSue83rFaWV3ew29)
  - FRQ practice [2018 FRQs](../AP_shared/FRQs/ap18-frq-computer-science-a.pdf)
  - [Solution](../AP_shared/FRQs/ap18-sg-comp-sci-a.pdf)
  - Assignment: [SortChart project](../AP_shared/Sorting.md). Due 2/14
- 2/19 (Wednesday)
	- Engineering Day (Short class)
	- Sorting Quiz next class over selection, insertion, merge sort.
- 2/21 (Friday)
  - Sorting Quiz today
- 2/25 (Tuesday)
	- Go to AP Classroom and complete Unit 2 FRQ Progress Check and Unit 10 FRQ Progress Check
	- Download [Recursion Practice](../AP_shared/monster-recursion.pdf) and complete #1-35
	- Submit your answers on [this google form](https://forms.gle/DP6NJgkxMeswcP2u5)
	- Both must be completed in class today
	- Test **next Monday** over recursion, sorting, searching
	- Please review your sorting quiz results on AP Classroom
	- Finish Recursion practice packet for HW
- 2/27 (Thursday)
  - AP Practice problems in class
  - Review for test Monday: Recursion, Sorting, Searching, FRQ
	- Monster Recursion [solutions](../AP_shared/monster-recursion-solutions.pdf)
	- Review previous quizzes and FRQs (on AP Classroom)
	- Practice [FRQs](https://codehs.com/library/apcsa_frq_center)-look at "Methods"
- 3/3 (Monday)
  - Test!
- 3/5 (Wednesday)
  - Do FRQ Practice 01 in AP Classroom
  - Submit answers to [this google form](https://forms.gle/vjZbEGsvBcHMqc6g8)
  - Download [file1](../AP_shared/MyArrayList/MyArrayList.java) and [file2](../AP_shared/MyArrayList/MyArrayListDriver.java)
  - Implement MyArrayList by filling in the methods in the above file "MyArrayList.java". Test with the included driver
- 3/7 (Friday)
  - Assignment: Implement MyArrayList class discussed in class. Submit code (even if not finished) to the server before the end of class.
  - Create a folder "MyArrayList" and copy [file1](../AP_shared/MyArrayList/MyArrayList.java) and [file2](../AP_shared/MyArrayList/MyArrayListDriver.java) into it
  - Modify the MyArrayList class and use the driver file to check that it works
  - Note: the most important method is `ensureCapacity`. You call this in several other methods when you insert into the array, to make sure there is enough space
  - You will submit the entire folder to the server. You do not need a package name.
  - Also note: `size` is the number of elements in the array -- NOT the max size
  - There is a female student ACL [field trip](../AP_shared/field-trip.md) form to fill out if you are interested. See it in class today!
- 3/11 (Tuesday)
	- See these [FRQ Practice Problems](../AP_shared/FRQs/ap-computer-science-a-frq-2017.pdf) and complete #3 and #4. You can type them in any editor you want.
	- Discuss ArrayLists -- Note ArrayList quiz next class over ArrayList code
	- Introduce Linked Lists
	- LinkedList assignment files: [Class](../AP_shared/LinkedLists/LinkedList.java) and [Driver](../AP_shared/LinkedLists/LinkedListTester.java). Copy to a folder LinkedList and implement the class file.
- 3/13 (Thursday)
  - Quiz today over ArrayLists on Schoology
  - Finish LinkedList code in class and submit to the server
		- folder LinkedList
			- LinkedList.java
			- LinkedListTester.java
			- screenshot of program output
	- Next class: Practice AP Multiple Choice test. 90 minutes. Will be a minor, curved quiz grade.
	- FRQ practice TBD
- 3/17 (Monday)
  - Practice AP Test on AP Classroom
  - Linked List quiz next class
- 3/19 (Wednesday)
  - Linked List quiz in schoology
  - Doubly Linked List due at end of class (modify your existing linked list class. Turn in folder DoublyLinkedList containing class, tester and screenshot of driver.)
- 3/21 (Friday)
  - Makeup AP CS test in class (from Monday)
  - Work on MediaPlayer programming project
	- Read [Description](../AP_shared/Playlist/assignment-instructions.pdf)
	- Download [zip file](../AP_shared/Playlist.zip)
	- Check out [video demo](../AP_shared/Playlist/MediaPlayerDemo.webm) of the finished app.
	- MediaPlayer is Due 3/27
  - LinkedList and DoubleLinkedList must be in today if not already.
- - 3/25
  - Warm up MC Quiz 1 on Schoology
  - Notes on Comparable interface, compareTo, sorting
  - Work on MediaPlayer programming project
- 3/27 (Thursday)
  - MediaPlayer due!
  - Warm up MC Quiz 2 on Schoology
  - FRQ: 2D Array on AP Classroom also [google form](https://forms.gle/KEznYnRJsLhfWyWQ9) for backup
  - FRQ [solution](../AP_shared/FRQs/2DArray-key.pdf)
  - Topic: Stacks and Queues
  - Project: [Stacks](../AP_shared/Stack.zip). Complete the Stack.java class using your LinkedList class and get the driver to run. Screenshot the terminal, add to folder, and submit folder to server.
- 4/1 (Tuesday)
	- MC3 Practice on Schoology
  - FRQ "April 1" practice on AP Classroom
  - Submit Queue class today. Use this [driver file](../AP_shared/Queue/QueueDriver.java) to test it.